Warp's project rule files are going to
make it so much easier for you to build
big projects without hallucinations and
to keep your LLM laser focused on your
project. Instead of having to reexplain
your setup each time, you can document
it once and warp will always have that
context. In this video, I'm going to
show you what a warp markdown file is,
walk through an example, and then share
some best practices for getting the most
out of it. So, getting started is
simple. First, you want to run /init and
warp will generate a starter file called
warp.md in your project route. Now,
let's walk through a real example. I've
created one for my Astro and React
project that uses Firebase and Versel.
If I type ls in my project route, you
can actually see I have the warp.md file
right there. And I can open it by
running /open project rules and warp
will pull it up in a side file editor
where I can scroll and see everything
inside. You can see that the markdown
file aderes by best practices like using
standard markdown headings to organize
the file into logical sections. The
first section covers common commands
things like npm rundev to start the dev
server, npm run build for production and
npm install for dependencies. This gives
warp reproducible ways to run and build
your project. Next is the architecture
overview. At a high level, this app lets
developers upload brew files, stores
them in Firebase, runs personality
analysis, and displays the results in a
web UI. The file even includes flow
diagrams and component interaction
diagrams to make the system easy to
understand. From there it goes into key
architecture details like the front end
uses Astro. The back end uses serverless
API routes. The database is Firebase and
for deployment is Versel. It also
documents the project structure like
where to find components types utilities
and the Firebase config. Now there are a
couple tips I'd like to share to make
the most out of your project rules. The
first is to be very lean and
intentional. So everything in your
warp.mmd file gets prepended to your
prompt. That means a longer file eats
into your token budget. So the more
tokens used, the more computationally
expensive each request becomes. So my
advice is to keep it sharp and only
include what truly matters. The second
is you're starting with a boilerplate,
but treat this file as a living
document. Warps/init command gives you a
solid baseline, but the real value comes
from iterating. For example, you can add
in your team's git workflow like always
branching off main, using descriptive
names, opening draft PRs early, and
squash only when merging. As your
project grows, you want to keep feeding
in preferences that makes warp code just
like you would. Third is generating rule
files in subdirectories. So, if you're
working in a large monor repo, you don't
have to cram everything into one doc.
For example, I can navigate into source
and then run /init again to generate a
warp.mmd tailored just to that
directory. Obviously, it's a bit
redundant here since this project is so
small, but you get the point. And
finally, you want to optimize your rules
file over time. You can run your warp.md
file through a prompt optimizer,
especially when your file becomes
massive, like over 500 lines. Doing this
will help you catch duplication, remove
overlaps, and slim down the file so it
stays effective without burning extra
tokens. So, to recap, your warp.md file
is your project's AI onboarding guide.
You want to keep it lean, update it as
you go, and optimize it over time. Hope
this helps.